# Spindle Drag 'N Drop Pivot Table
## my aborted attempt

This app was intended as a solution to [Spindle's tech challenge](https://spindle.notion.site/Take-Home-Challenge-The-Drag-n-Drop-Multi-Pivot-Table-0ba1957eabcf418cad6e4da866fc5fa7) to build a novel DnD interface for a pivot table application.

I knew when I read the challenge description that it would be a demanding exercise, and that was initially more motivating than discouraging. Unfortunately I had no prior exposure to pivot tables, so had to spend quite a bit of time deep diving on how they worked in order to be able to create the “basic” functionality (basic is in quotes there because even a simple functional pivot table is a non-trivial application). I would need a few more hours just to get the functional foundation solidified before I could move on to creating a novel drag/drop interface on top of it. I'm leaving this here for the benefit of Stephen Hedrick, in consideration of the professionalism and consideration he demonstrated in trying to make this connection, in hopes that there might be some forensic value.

## Chosen tech stack
I chose to create this app using SvelteKit and SCSS. For those that haven't had exposure to Svelte or SvelteKit, it's a modern js framework that is comparable to Next.js in terms of the fully-featured frontend application support, including a fast and enjoyable build/dev system, lovely file-based routing, ease of isomorphic deployment, external API manipulation with simple and minimally-obtuse abstractions. However, these are benefits not necessarily tailored to this project, and considering the obvious choice would be React, I should have good reasons for picking this tool. The reason I chose SvelteKit is: (A) I've used it for a few other professional and personal projects recently and felt like it would be the fastest way for me to write expressive components and I knew speed would be a concern (B) One of SvelteKit's shiny features is a state management system that makes it very straightforward to derive values from other values and update them reactively. This seemed like an apt solution to setting dimensions and configurations and having the rest of the pivot values automatically recalculated and reflow the UI.

## Tech stack not chosen
The solutions not chosen, especially those carefully considered and discarded, often tell as much as what is included. I did spend significant (too much) time attempting to shortcut the basic pivot table creation process by finding a decent library as a base. While there is a prominent [React Pivot Table package](https://github.com/plotly/react-pivottable) available, which includes a DnD interface, it seemed to only allow adding a single dimension on the X/row axis. Unless my reading of the requirements were mistaken, this would seem to rule it out.
